Hurry up, little thing. Tell me now. School's
started.
If someone were to ask you, what is reading, what
would you tell them that you thought it was? Talk
reading now. Talk written down. Okay, then when
you read, that's right, that's the way I would
express it too. Then when you read, would you say,
this is a red ball? Or how would you read that?
How would you say it to me? This is A. A red ball. This
is a red ball. All right. Would you say the car is
blue? No, I'd say
the car is blue. All right. B is the and A is the.
That's right. A is a. Okay, I think that's a good
deal. Now, what in the world, we have history,
don't we? Yes. Well, what is that? His story. It's
his story of who? Of the person who wrote it. Well,
that's exactly right, and that's a good answer.
That's a good answer. Now, we talk about science
and people. people say, I like science better than
anything. Really, when you talk about science,
what is science? Science is projects.
It's like how they made the airplane and the
football and the basketball and the volleyball
and the And I gave you a pretty good definition
yesterday. It's, what did I tell you about,
well, who made this world? God. All right. Then
what would science be? It would be about the world.
The creation of all the things in the world,
wouldn't it? Yes. And what did we say about the? The
sky. Sky. Stars. Moon.
Sun. That's right. Everything. God created
everything. Did God make anything bad or was it all
good? It was all good creation. And who made it bad?
The devil. And we didn't. That's right. The devil
and the rest of us made the bad part, didn't we?
Okay. Well, all right. Now, I guess we better
get... If you were going to start out with a little
boy like we did yesterday, that he didn't know what
addition was... How would you try to tell him what
addition was? Addition? It's just pick out words.
It. Is it words or is it something else?
It. Numbers. Numbers. And what do you do to them?
You just write them down and sort them. And then
Just cross the line out in fours. That's when you do
your multiplication. Addition, what do you put,
like?
Four. Two and two makes? Four. Well, what do you do
to make that, though? You take. You put them
together. Put them together. All right. You put
them together. Addition means to put things
together. To add two and to pull together, doesn't
it? Yes. Well, what does subtract mean? Take it
away. Don't put it together. Pull it apart. Take it
apart. That's right. Move it apart. Okay. I guess
that's the way we go. How do you write your twos to a
hundred for me? No, that's all right. Oh, no. Here
you go. Make him start all over. All right. Oh,
well, if you want to use that. Yeah, you can use it.
He's already got it marked. But how do you do? If you
were going to start out now to tell a little boy,
well, I can show you how you can write your twos to
100 right quick. What would you tell him the first
thing to do? Start with one. And do what? And go to 20
and then cross 2. 2 is 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18,
20. Well, sure. Then you'd go back and say 1 times 2
is what? 1 times 2 is 2. All right. And 2 times 2 is 4.
Two times three is six. Two times five is eight. No,
two times four. Four is eight. Two times five is
ten. And you show him every one of those right down
the line. That's right. Has that been hard for you
now? No. It's easy, isn't it? All right, if you
wanted to write a three, what would you do? You
would skip these two and put three in, and then skip
this one and this one and put that one, and then skip
this one and this one and this one and put that one.
Every third one, you'd scratch out, wouldn't you?
Then you'd go back and say, one times three is
three, two times three is six, three times three is
nine, And then 3?
3 times 4 is 12. 3 times 5 is 15. 3 times 6 is 18. 3 times
7 is 40. 21. That a boy. Now you got it. Now that, you
see how much easier that is than having to, having
to make all of those times and things? Yeah. It's a
lot easier. Yeah, put that 21 down there so you'll
know it. That's good. All right, I see you bought a
brand new book this morning. Library. A library
book. Well, that's good. And, um,
And what is that about? It's about a horse that
doesn't have his mama. Well, what do we have around
here that doesn't have a mama? A calf outside. Sure
do. Do you know that he had to lay down? I made him lay
down again yesterday. What for? I'm teaching him
to lay down. To mine. When I tell him to lay down, I
want her to lay down. Yeah, when you want to sit,
sit. Well, she's pretty good. She minds pretty
good. All right, now that is, oh, how many words can
you find in this today? What is this? Lonesome.
All right, lonesome. All right, what word is this?
Little. Right here. Me. All right. What is this
word? So. What is that word? So me. So. Some.
S-O-M-E. Some, isn't it? Some. All right. What is
this?
One. All right.
Once. All right.
L-O-N.
On. Long. All right. What's this?
On. O-N. All right. Good. Good. What's this word?
It. Good.
Well, if you took this letter and put it with this
letter in code, what would it be? Put this one first
and that
one. T-O, what would that be? T-O. Toe? Two. Two.
What's T-O-O spelled? T-O-O, two. What is T-W-O
spelled? T-W-O, two. All right. T-W-O is what kind
of a two? It's T-W-O is a... It's the real two. The
real? It's the number two. That's right, the
number two. And what is the T-double-O? It's just
two to say, like, you can go to the store, too. Yeah.
You can go to the store, too, meaning the other one
can, too. All right. And two just means one. Okay.
We got that one down pretty good. We got that one
down pretty good. And what did we decide language
was? Language? Yesterday, when we was all talking
about language.
You know, we have to know, they'll say, well, we're
going to have some language today and we're going
to have periods and commas and we're going to study
what somebody said and how you write it and what you
put down.
Have you forgotten? All right. What did we say
about people? Its
language is
the way people
D-A-L-K.
Taught. It's their talk. Now, do the Spanish talk
like we do? No. They have a language of their own.
But they speak. It's the way people speak. That's
right. And it's their dialect that they have. And
we have a different one from other people. And
don't every community have a different dialect,
different way of talking? And they have
different... They say different things now over
in Hawaii. When they put up their finger like a
little finger and a thumb like that, they'll reach
it. And they'll and you know what that means. Hang
loose. Because they'll hang you from here to here,
but it would be loose. They couldn't pull it down.
Hang loose alright. How do you make the sign of hook
them horns? Okay, that's these two fingers,
hook'em horns. All right, now you see every, every
one has a different, that's a language, and that's
a sign language that each have different. You see
what I mean? Now, this is hook'em horns. And what is
this now? Hang loose. Hang loose, okay. Hang
loose. And you see people come and meet you on the
street, and they'll, all right, grab your hand
like that, and they'll pull down like that. That's
another sign language. And that is what?
What? What would you think that would be? Hi. Hi,
greeting, that's right. That's a different word.
With Texas, hi, brother, hi. And that's what we say
to an old cow when we're trying to get her to go back.
Hi, right? Yeah. And I guess that word hi is used
only in Texas to any extent. Definitely that is one
of Texas colloquialism. Hi. And push your hand.
Backwards. Hi. Hi. And that's the way we talk to old
cows when we're trying to pin them. Trying to get
them going. Hi. That's a tradition that was handed
down by all the old trail drivers. And let me tell
you, while we're talking about stories and
history, before we get to our reading, did you know
that one of the largest trail drives that Texas
ever knew was a Chisholm, or people in the north or
west, was the Chisholm Trail? And do you know that
my grandfather and my great-uncle were the
largest trail drovers of the Chisholm Trail from
1860 to 1878.
Tom
and Sam Johnson. Well, my father's name was Tom,
and Lyndon's father's name was Sam. And they were
named after these big trail drivers. And up here
where I work, where that, you see that picture
right there? Yeah. I'm sitting on the porch with
that little hen. I called her Chicken Little. And
I'd call her, and she'd come and jump up in my lap. I
could just call, just like I would call a, a dog to
come and feed. I'd say, come on, chicken little,
I'll feed you. And she'd just come a-running to the
house, jump up in my lap, and eat corn out of my hand.
And it pleased the people to see her. And she was a
little old spotted Well, I don't know, just a
chicken. She had a few black spots on her, and she
had some rhodolin red in her, and she looked like
she might have a little primal throat. She's just a
chicken. You remember how she did? And I said, come
on now, chicken little. And she'd jump up on my
shoulder and just sing, sit while I'd be in that
chair. and saying of course i think sometimes she
might leave her calling card on me but she didn't
now what did i tell you about the trail drives that
the uh 1892 to 1879
from 18 and 60 to 1878, the Johnson brothers went
up the Chisholm Trail. They took more cattle up the
Chisholm Trail. Now that was in Culpeper Cattle
Company's report. They took theirs to Dodge City
most of the time. And in the cold winter, they lost
nearly all they had one time they froze to death.
When was that? I remember it. The history of it. I
believe it was in It was in the 70s. Yeah. But I have
forgotten. I could go look it up, but I remember the
history. Well, I remember Grandpa telling me
about it. Do you? Oh, Lord, yes. Cattle froze up
against the fence? Yes. Imagine that. They would
pack up against the fence and try to keep warm, and
they'd just freeze to death just standing there,
just stiff as boards. And that's where I worked.
That's where he lived. you know, where we went to
tell that story, you know, where I took you all and
told you about it. Well, now that was the cattle
ground. And that hole of water, they always called
that the Johnson Watering Hole. And they would
bring their cattle there because water was simply
something that they had to take care of with their
stock because they didn't have a lot as they'd go
across the desert. Yes, they had to go across the
deserts and things that they didn't have any. And
they'd have to stop there and water. And that same
water hole, you know, what else happened with that
same water hole?
Somebody's mother went to get some water and
thought you didn't trust them. Opened the flap and
she ran back to the house and hid under the house.
Who was that woman?
You. Grandmother. That's right. My grandmother.
That sure is right. And what'd she do to that baby?
She... She... She took it under the house with her.
And... Hit it there. She hit the baby, but she tied a
diaper around the other little girl's mouth
because she cried and didn't have anything to eat.
She would nurse both of them off of her breasts. And
then without any water and without anything to
eat, she had very little milk for a whole day and a
whole night.
And she tied the diaper around the baby's mouth so
it wouldn't cry. And when the other one, when she
put it on the breast and it started to cry, well, she
put her hand over its mouth.
You know, that's bound to have been quite an
experience. Yes. It must have been scary. I tell
you, my grandmother had the blackest eyes. They
were piercing eyes. And they talked. They did.
They talked, and she just said, now, Samely, I'm
not raising my little girls in this wilderness.
You're taking me back to the prairie. Well, the
prairie was Buda. Now, just think, right down
here, not, well, I guess maybe it's 45 miles. I
doubt if it is. But... This was a timbered country,
and that was prairie. And she says, close to
civilization, says, I cannot stand to live here
with these Indians. And she was one of the best
shots with a gun. And she could ride a horse like an
Indian. But, She was scared because grandfather
would be gone months at a time and leave her there.
Were these Apache Indians or were they?
Comanches. Comanches, that's right. Comanches.
I was wrong. I thought so, yeah. Yeah, they were
Comanches and they were killers. Yeah, that's
right. And it hasn't been, but... Well, after he
took her back, it was two weeks after he took her
back to the prairie that the Comanches killed the
Phelpses over here and scalped them because he was
a red-headed man and Indians loved red hair. And
they scalped him and killed his wife there at the
spring getting water. She said, that could have
easily been me and my babies. I'll never forget
grandmother telling me the story of that. And of
course, I'd love to hear it. And I'd love to see if
there's Indians around me and all that kind of
stuff. I was afraid. But we did have, coming
through here, Even up to 1910, every once in a
while, there'd be a bunch of them coming through,
but they would be friendly. But nevertheless,
they'd scare the daylights out of you. After
stories like that, I bet it would make you feel
scared. It makes you scared. And
they killed a beef there in the barn, stole their
horses, stole their silver-mounted horses, that
she had for her buggy and her saddle. What else did
they get in the house? They got food and pots and
pans. Everything they had. They just took it all.
They would tear up the house after they got through
and burn it. Everything they could get.
Grandmother hadn't unpacked her wedding gifts.
She had them in a big box and they took them. I tell
you, the way she talked, she had, her first few
years were hard. But grandfather made good money.
You know, I've never understood why he didn't pay
his men on the drive. He never paid them until he
came back. And he paid, you know that table It's in
the, up there in that old log cabin, table like
that. And why I know this, Mr. Klett,
Charlie Klett boarded with my mother and father,
and he went up the trail with my grandfather. Well,
he outlived my grandfather by 20 years, because he
was that much younger. And he told me all about how
my grandfather handled his business. And he never
paid his hands only in gold bars. Oh, really?
That's the way he paid his cattle rustle. It's a
good way to be paid, isn't it? Yeah. His gold bars.
All right, now what have you had this morning to
study? This morning I had
about
history and language and
numbers. Numbers, and what else? And I did my
reading. What about, who made this world? God.
Well, what do you call that? Sun.
What's all this nature all around us and all of the
birds and animals, all of the trees, what do we call
that? Sun. Sun. Science. Science, that's right.
Now we have two or three different kinds of
science, don't we? Yes. Yes, we sure do. But who is
responsible for all of that science? That's
right, but who is that? God. The man upstairs,
that's right. That's right. And he only made what
kind of things? Good thing. That's right. That's
right. Now then, we're going. Well, all right.
Let's see if you can. Oh, we did something else,
too, didn't we? We read. What did we do? We read the
book. Yes, sir. We picked out a bunch of words,
didn't we? Uh-huh. What did your mama think about
your words?
She didn't tell me anything. She didn't tell you
anything. Well, I'm going to have to get after her.
on a now do we say a what do we say all right
for in the country there was many many ponies of
these all all sizes and colors now they were All
beautiful
with long flowing
means.
What is that thing right there? Period. All right.
What do you call that? Stop. You betcha. That's a
stop sign. You bet. Each one had a
little cult and they all
lived
happily
together.
Together. Together. Together. How did they live?
Together. They slept together. They ate
together. Well, were they unhappy or were they
happy? Happy. Well, where was this place? In the
country. On a ranch or a farm? On a farm. That's
good. Now then, when you read something and you can
tell what you read, you understand it, right?
Mm-hmm. Uh-huh. Yes. Ma'am. Ma'am. Each little
colt started close. Where did he do? What is that
word? S-T-A-Y. Stayed. Close.
Where is he? Close to his mother. Beside. Beside
its mother.
Stop sign. Blue Bell. Blue Bell and Blue Bell was a
great pony. Here her clothes was a red gold
and a and she was very pretty proud of
Of him. Of him. Now read that over and read it like a
meaning.
Each little colt was... No. Each little colt
stayed close beside its mother. Its mother. Its
mother. Bluebell was a great... Pony. That's a
what kind of a sign? Stop sign. Alright. Read that
again. Bluebell was a great
Bluebell was a great pony. Pony. Pony. She. Her
coat. Her coat was red and gold and she was very
proud of him. She was very proud of him. Look, each
little colt stayed close beside its mother.
Bluebell was a gray pony. Her colt was red gold. Now
you see that hyphen? That's two words together.
Red gold. And what's that? That's a, what kind of,
yes. All right, and he tells you to slow, doesn't
he? All right. And the coat was red gold. And she
was...